---
layout: "post"
title: "blog11"
---

<h1><div style="color:#884EA0;font-weight:bold">Terraform</div></h1>

<p>
This week my group started to learn about Terraform. In attempts to recreate our AWS environment, that we created using the AWS management console. So i went through some steps to create a Spot Fleet Request using Terraform.
</p>
<br>
<h3 style="color:#884EA0;font-weight:bold">Installation</h3>
<p>
So first thungs first is installing Terraform! To download the Terraform click this link: <br>
<a href="https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html">Terraform Download</a><br>
Download the correct file for your operating system, and unzip the file.<br>
Next is creating a new directory, the ~/bin directory.<br>
Now we download the zip file. This was a test file, download the file that suits your needs and/or the most recent version.<br> 
wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.12.24/terraform_0.12.24_linux_amd64.zip<br>
Now unzip it, and move the file to the ~/bin directory.<br>
unzip terraform_0.12.24_linux_amd64.zip<br>
mv terraform ~/bin<br>
To verify you did it correctly and to check which version try this command:<br>
terraform version<br>
</p>
<h3 style="color:#884EA0;font-weight:bold">Spot Fleet Request</h3>
<p>
Im going to be over how to request a spot fleet request using Terraform, since i believe that is the biggest part of our project and was the part we worked on the most. <br> 
This was the sample code I tested with change the options according to your AWS needs.<br>
resource:<br>
  aws_spot_fleet_request:<br>
    cheap_compute:<br>
      iam_fleet_role: 'arn:aws:iam::12345678:role/spot-fleet'<br>
      spot_price: 0.03<br>
      allocation_strategy: diversified<br>
      target_capacity: 6<br>
      valid_until: '2019-11-04T20:44:20Z'<br>
      launch_specification:<br>
        -
          instance_type: m4.10xlarge<br>
          ami: ami-1234<br>
          spot_price: 2.793<br>
        -
          instance_type: m4.4xlarge<br>
          ami: ami-5678<br>
          key_name: my-key<br>
          spot_price: 1.117<br>
          availability_zone: us-west-1a<br>
          subnet_id: subnet-1234<br>
          weighted_capacity: 35<br>
          root_block_device:<br>
            volume_size: 300<br>
            volume_type: gp2<br>          
</p>
<br>
<p>
<div style="color:#E74C3C;font-weight:bold">Code Meanigs:</div><br>
iam_fleet_role: Grants the Spot fleet permission to terminate Spot instances. <br>
launch_specification: sed to define the launch configuration of the spot-fleet request.<br>
spot_price: The bid price per unit hour.<br>
target_capacity: The number of units to request.<br>
allocation_strategy: Indicates how to allocate the target capacity across the Spot pools.<br>
excess_capacity_termination_policy:  Indicates whether running Spot instances should be terminated if the target capacity of the Spot fleet request is decreased below the current size of the Spot fleet.<br>
terminate_instances_with_expiration: Indicates whether running Spot instances should be terminated when the Spot fleet request expires.<br>
valid_until: The end date and time of the request.<br>
id: The Spot fleet request ID.<br>
spot_request_state: The state of the Spot fleet request.<br>
</p>

