---
layout: "post"
title: "blog10"
---
<p>This week i wanted to write about Launch Configuration and Auto Scaling Groups for your EC2 instances in AWS</p>

<h2>Launch Configurations:</h2><br>
<p>
This a configuration template set up by the user. It is used by the Auto Scaling Group to launch new EC2 instances. <br>

1. To create a Launch Configurtion in AWS go to the EC2 service. On the left navigation pane there is a section named Auto Scaling select Launch Configuration.<br>
2. In the this next page select Create Launch Configuration. <br>
3. Next select your AMI the one that best suits your needs. Next: Configure Details. <br>
4. In the Configure Details you will be asked to input: <br>
-Name:(Name for the Launch Configuration)<br>
-Purchasing Option:(Spot,Demand, Or Reserved)<br> 
-IAM Role: OPTIONAL (Role you have associated with your instances)<br>
-Enable CloudWatch detailed Monitoring (Optional)<br>
-Advanced Details: Includes:<br>
IP Address Type <br>
Assign a public IP address to everyinnstance. <br>
5. Next we are going to select Review. Here we can edit Security Groups, or Create the Launch Configuration.<br>
6. Next you will be prompted to select a key pair. Select an existing key pair then click on the the acknowledge button and then create launch configuration.<br> 
</p><br>
<br>
<h2>Auto Scaling Groups:</h2><br>
<p>
An Auto Scaling Group is a collection/group of EC2 instances that are put together for auto scaling to maintain the desired number of instances in your environment. It also performs health checks on your instances.<br>
There are different methods for starting your Auto Scaling Group but the method I am going to discuss today is creating an Auto Sclaing Group using a Launch Configuration:<br>

1. To create a Launch Configurtion in AWS go to the EC2 service. On the left navigation pane there is a section named Auto Scaling select Auto Scaling Group.<br>

2. Next select Create Auto Scaling Group. The yo are going to enter a name for your Auto Scaling Group.<br>

3. Now to select you previously set-up Launch Configuration, choose an existing Launch Configuration. Then select Next. <br>

4. Next is the Configure setting page, here you will select your Perferred Network, VPC, and your subnets.<br>

5. Next, these steps are optional you can go ahead and chose to review or continue on.<br>

6. We are now going to specify load balancing and health checks. Configure them to what is needed for your environment then select Next. <br>
-To use a load balancer with your instances select Enable Load Balancing. Chose a pre-existing load balancer or create one.<br>
-To enable Elastic Load Balancing health checks, choose ELB in the Health Check Type section.<br>
-In the Health Check Grace Period section, enter to desired time for Amazon to preform the health checks. <br>

7. Next we are going to Configure group size and scaling policies. Here you will configure:<br>
-Desired Capacity this is the amount of instances you would like to start with. <br>
-Next is selecting your target tracking scaling policy.<br> 
-Instance Scaling Policy here you will choose to enable instance scale-in protection.<br>

8. Now we are going to ADD NOTIFICATION here you can configure your notifications.<br>

9. In this next section you can add tags if you desire. You are going to input a value key for each tag. <br>

10. Now is review, and select Create Auto Scaling Group.<br>

</p><br>

Now we are DONE. Thank You. This is what i wanted to discuss for this week. 