---
layout: "post"
title: "blog7"
---

<p>This week i tried compiling my own custom kernel. </p>

<p>
1. First off step one is finding your kernel source. Download the lastest source code form https://www.kernel.org. Click on the yellow rectangle to begin download (Latest Stable Kernel).<br>
2. Next we use wget to download the kernel. <br>
<br>wget https://cdn.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v5.x/linux-5.4.1.tar.xz<br>

<br>Next we want to extract the tar.xz file. You can use the unxz command.<br>

<br>unxz -v linux-5.4.1.tar.xz<br>

<br>Now we are going to verify your linux kernel tartball with pgp. First we are going to grab the PGP signature for linux-5.4.1.tar: input the command  wget https://cdn.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v5.x/linux-5.4.1.tar.sign <br>

<br>Next attempt to verify with the command: gpg --verify linux-5.4.1.tar.sign<br>

<br>Next grab the public key from the PGP  keyserver in order to verify the signature. Its going to be the RSA key. <br>

<br>gpg --recv-keys 79BE3E4300411886<br>

<br>and after input the command: gpg --verify linux-5.4.1.tar.sign<br>

<br>Next enter the command: tar xvf linux-5.4.1.tar  
</p>
<br>Next step is chosing the kernel modules for your system. I used this pre-existing config file. <br>
cd linux-5.4.1<br>
cp - /boot/config-$(uname -r) .config

<p>
Next we are going to install the compilers and some other tools.<br>Input the command: sudo apt-get install build-essential libncurses-dev bison flex libssl-dev libelf-dev (Debian/Ubuntu Linux)<br>
Configuring the kernel: make menuconfig
<br>Compile to create kernel use the command input: make
<br>To install the Linux kernel module input the command: sudo make modules_install
<br> To install the Linux kernel input: sudo make install
<br> We still need to modify the Grub 2 boot loader configurations. Input the following command: sudo update-initramfs -c -k 5.4.1
<br>then input: sudo update-grub
</p>
<p>
Last is to reboot your computer and use your new kernel. 
<br> Use the command: reboot
<br>then the command: uname -mrs
</p>
ANNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNND we are done! I had this assignment in a previous class and was just going over it again trying out different ways to accomplish this to learn more. 








