---
layout: "post"
title: "blog12"
---
<h1 style="color:#B03A2E;">Hosting your Website on Github</h1>

<h4 style="color:#E67E22;">This week I want to discuss how to host your website on Github. I have been utilizing Github for my blogs this semester. I was kind of intimitated to start but once i got the hang of things its fairly simple.</h4>

<p>
1.Create a GitHub account on github.com.<br>
2.Download either GitHub Windows.<br>
3.Then log-in to your Github account.<br>
4.Create a new repository in your GitHub application. Name it your-username.github.io. It is important that you use your username it will not work otherwise. <br>
 - Note the folder that GitHub is saving the repository to. Make sure the "Push to GitHub?" box is checked.<br>
5.Move your website's files into the folder that GitHub just created when you made the repository.Your homepage HTML file must be named "index.html", and it must located in the top-level directory.<br>
6.In the GitHub, you should see the files you added in. Make sure they are all selected. Then, click the commit button, make sure to name you commits something like "first commit" to keep things organized.<br>
7.Click the "Publish repo" button in the top right corner.
Wait a bit for it to finish deploying, then check your-username.github.io. <br>
</p>
<h4 style="color:#E67E22;">Pushing files to Github using the command line.</h4>

<p>
Now I also wanted to go over how to add files via the command line.<br>
1.On your computer, move the files you want to upload to GitHub into the local directory that was made when you cloned your repository.<br>
2. Open Git Bash and change from the current working directory into your local repository.<br>
Command to add file:<br>
$ git add.<br>
Command to commit file:<br>
$ git commit -m "#commit,CommitName"<br>
Command to push file to Github:<br>
$ git push origin your-branchname<br>
3.Now we head back to your Github account and if done correctly you should see the files you added from the command line.
</p>
Thank you that is what i wanted to discuss this week. I hope it was helpful to someone and i encourage others to play around with git and github, it is pretty interesting. 
