---
layout: "post"
title: "blog8"
---

<p>This week i played around with virtual machines just to not get rusty.<br>
I downloaded Ubuntu and worked on it. So this weeks blog is going to be downloading and installing it.<br>
Ubuntu is a free open source and secure operating system. 
</p>
<p>
<h2>Step 1:</h2>
So first things first is downloading the Ubuntu file from: <br>
 https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop <br>
 It was recommended to download the torrent instead of the direct download it will secure that you have a complete transfer of the Ubuntu ISO. <br>(This link is for the torrent download):<br>https://ubuntu.com/download/alternative-downloads<br>
</p>
<p>
<h2>Step 2:</h2>
<br>We are now going to prepare a bootable Ubuntu USB flash drive.<br>
So we are going to use Rufus which is something i never used before so took a bit getting use to!<br>
 The link for Rufus is: https://github.com/pbatard/rufus/releases/download/v3.8/rufus-3.8.exe <br>
 Next: click select to open the Ubuntu ISO.<br>
 Next: click start to begin preparing the boot device.<br>
With using Rufus you’ll need to configure your BIOS appropriately. Entering the BIOS requires pressing the correct key combination upon boot.<br>

Common keys to enter the BIOS include Delete, Esc, F1, F2, and F10. Press the key relevant to your setup just after powering up your PC.<br>

Once in your BIOS, go to either your boot order or select the USB as the next primary boot source for your next restart.<br>
</p>
<p>
<h2>Step 3:</h2><br>
Installing Ubuntu. When your computer boots you should see a language selesct screen. Ubuntu gives you the option to test before installing. So if you want to test before commiting select Try Ubuntu.<br>

So continuing on select your language and select Install Ubuntu.<br>
Next is selecting your keyboard layout and locality. Then click continue.<br>
 If you have an active internet connection available, click on in other options ‘Download updates while installing Ubuntu’ and ‘Install third-party software for graphics and wi-fi hardware and additional media formats’ and make sure they are checked before you continue to proceed. <br>

 In the next window make sure Erase disk and install Ubuntu is checked. Then click Install Now. In the  box pop-up select continue. <br>
 Next select your correct time-zone and click continue. <br>
Next input your desired name, computer name, username, and secure password. Making sure to select the ‘Require my password to login’ for added security then click continue.<br>
Next when the installation is complete select Resart now in the pop-up box that will appear. Next make sure to remove your USB and press the enter key to continue. <br>
It is now installed!!!!<br>
You can also install in a virtual machine if that is your preffered manner but i wanted to attempt a different way.
</p>