---
layout: "post"
title: "blog13"
---
<h1>After Effects</h1>
<p>For this blog I am going to discuss after effects. I am taking a course at CSUN Art 306 and we use After Effects to complete our course work. Prior to this course I had never had any interaction with anything in the adobe creative suite. So this was a fun learning experience, also I hope this helps in your after effects endeavors. </p><br>

<h3>Installing</h3>
<p>
So as always first step is installing After effects. <br>
To purchase the Adobe Suite here is the link: <br>
<a href="https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud.html?sdid=KKQWX&mv=search&ef_id=Cj0KCQjwhtT1BRCiARIsAGlY51KHHJ8aN_sXkhLmtHrrazsG0qlcJv_EJKRbLxgQlhqXePgRbbfcWfgaAoKLEALw_wcB:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!3085!3!394002003253!e!!g!!adobe&gclid=Cj0KCQjwhtT1BRCiARIsAGlY51KHHJ8aN_sXkhLmtHrrazsG0qlcJv_EJKRbLxgQlhqXePgRbbfcWfgaAoKLEALw_wcB">Adobe Suite Website</a><br>
After you have chosen your plan open you should have downloaded the Adobe Creative Cloud which contains the programs provided by adobe. We are going to select ater effects. <br>
 We wait for it to install then select it to open and start creating magic.<br>
</p>
<p>
So when we first open after effects it looks a bit intimidating but once you start you realize it is pretty simple.<br>
Lets make our first composition.<br>
1.In the top right corner select FILE then NEW a drop down menu will appear select NEW PROJECT. You will then be prompted to enter a name for your project.<br>
Then in the same line as FILE you should see COMPOSITION select it, in the drop down menu select new composition. You will then be prrompted to for a name, Input your desired name and select ok. YAY we got our project going!<br>
2. Now lets go back to FILE but lets head down to IMPORT, in the drop down menu select FILE.....<br>
Find a simple picture you have to import then select ok. The picture willl then appear in your assets drag it down into your composition.<br>
Click the picture so the file appears highlighted. Click the arrow next to the number and square of your file and select Transform. We are going to start simple I am going to go over position, scale, and opacity.<br>
We are working with keyframes which are in animation and filmmaking is a drawing that defines the starting and ending points of any smooth transition.<br>
3. So Position click on the timer next to postion and then on the timeline drag the blue line a bit further down the timeline a keyframe for your movement will be made automaticlly. Then in your view go up to the pitcure itself and move it to the side or up or down. Once you have decided in the right pane there should be a preview menu push play and look at the movement.<br>
Now for scale follow the same beginnig steps but click on the timer next to scale. Then again move further down the time line. In the same line there should be numbers those numbers are the size of your picture. Make it smaller or bigger depending on your desired effect and the push play in the preview to see your work. <br>
Now for opacity again follow the same steps but now click on the timer next to opacity. Again move the time line forward and change the number after opacity 100 is full view the lower you go the more transparent the image becomes. Then again click on the preview. <br> 
</p>
<p>
So I hope this helps you understand a bit more about after effects. Hopefully you create some awesome content. Thank you for reading and happy movie magic!
</p>