---
layout: "post"
title: "blog9"
----
This week i am going to be talking about Lab 6: Scale and Load Balance Your Architecture.

<h2>Task 1: Create an AMI for Auto Scaling</h2><br>
<p>1. Log-In to your aws console, from there we are going to click on services and select EC2.<br>
2. In the navigation pane click instances, we are going to wait until the status check displays 2/2 checks passed for Web Server 1.
3. Now select Web Server and go up to the Actions drop down menu and select Image then Create Image. The conficurations are as follows:<br>
Image Name: Web Server AMI<br>
Image Description: Lab AMI for Web Server<br>
Then select create image and then close.<br> 
</p>
<h2>Task 2: Create a Load Balancer</h2><br>
<p>
1. Still in the EC2 console on the left navigation pane click Load Balacers. Then select Create Load Balancer.<br>
2. We are going to be using a Application Load Balancer so under the Application Load Balancer click create. The configuration is as follows:<br>
Name: LabELB<br>
VPC:Labe VPC<br>
Availability Zones: Select both Availability Zones to display the available Subnets. Then select Public Subnet 1 and Public Subnet 2. <br>
3. Now click Next: Configure Security Setting. We are going to leave everything as default here. <br>
4. Click on Next: Configure Security Groups. There is a group already created named Web Security Group select it and deselect the default group. <br>
5. Next click on Next: Configure Routing. Insert:<br>
Name: LabGroup <br>
6. Click on Next: Register Targets. Leave as is and click Next: Review.
7. Next click Create then Close. <br>
</p>

<h2>Task 3: Create a Launch Configuration and an Auto Scaling Group</h2> <br>

<p>
1. Still in the EC2 console on the left navigation pane click Launch Configurations. Click on Create Launch Configurations.<br>
2. In the left navigation pane select My AMIs. Select the AMI Web Server 1.<br>
3. Now select the instance type t2.micro. Then click Next: Configuration Details. The configurations are as follows:<br>
Name: LabConfig<br>
Monitoring: Select/Check Enable CloudWatch Detailed Monitoring<br>
4. Next select Next: Add Storage we will leave this section as default. <br>
5. Now click Next: Configure Security Group. Configuration is as follows:<br>
Select an exisiting security group<br>
Select Web Security Group<br>
Now click on Review. Then select Create Launch Configuration.
6. You should recieve a pop-up window about keys. Check the box for I acknowledge then click Create Launch Configuration.<br>
7. Now we are going to create an auto-scailing group. Select Create an Auto Scaling Group Using this Launch Configuration. Configurations are as follows: <br>
Group Name: Lab Auto Scaling Group<br>
Group Size: 2<br>
Network: Lab VPC<br>
Subnet: Select Private Subnet 1 10.0.1.0/24 and Private Subnet 2 10.0.3.0/24<br>
8. Now expand the drop down menu for Advanced Details. Configurations are as follows: <br>
Load Balancing: Check Recieve traffic from one or more load balancers <br>
Target Groups: LabGroup <br>
Monitoring: Check Enable CloudWatch detailed monitoring<br>
9. Select Next: Configure Scaling Policies. Click on Use scaling policies to adjust the capacity of this group. Then modify the scale 2 to 6 instances. For Scale Group Size configurations are as follows: <br>
Metric Type: Average CPU Utilization<br>
Target Value: 60<br>
Select Next: Configure Notifications we will leave this section as default.<br> 
10. Next: Configure Tags configurations are as follows: <br>
Key: Name<br>
Value: Lab Instance<br>
Now click on Review. Next click on Create Auto Scaling Group. Then Close. 
</p><br>

<h2>Task 4: Verify that Load Balancing is Working</h2><br>
<p>
1. Now we are going to see if our Load Balancer is working correctly. Still in the EC2 console on the left navigation pane click Instances. There should be 2 new instances named Lab Instance. Keep refreshing until they display Health Check Passed 2/2.<br>
2. Now head on over to Target Groups in left navigation pane. Click Targets tab in the bottom. There should be 2 lab instances in the target group wait until both instances display healthy.<br>
3. Now in the left navigation pane select Load Balancers. Towrds the bottom of the page there should be a DNS name displayed copy it and open it in a new tab.<br> 
</p><br>

<h2>Task 5: Test Auto Scaling</h2><br>

<p>
1. Now with both tabs still open do not close any. Go back to your console go to services and select CloudWatch. In the left navigation pane click Alarms there should already be two alarms one the is alarmhigh and the other alarmlow.<br>
2. Click on the alarm that displays OK should include alarmhigh in the name. Now we head back over to the other tab click on Load Test and return to your console tab. Check on your alarms alarm low should now be OK and alarmhigh should now be ALARM.<br>
3. Next go to services and select EC2. In the left navigation pane click instances. There should now be more Lab Instances running. <br>
</p><br>

<h2>Task 6: Terminate Web Server 1</h2><br>
ALMOST DONE!<br>
<p>
1. In the EC2 console, go to your instances and select Web Server 1. Now go to Actions click on it for the drop down menu and select instance state then terminate. Then click Yes, Terminate. 
</p><br>
That is the end of the Lab. 